# ASME LaTeX Class for LaTeX verson 2e

Original source maintained at <http://iel.ucdavis.edu/code/ASME>

Unofficial enhancements hosted at <https://github.com/vancegroup/asme-latex>

## Release history:

### version 1.7.2, Aug 28, 2012.
- Posted Git repository of current and historical versions of
  this and related classes at
  <https://github.com/vancegroup/asme-latex>

- Remove `abstract.*` files

- Replace makefile with one based on
  <https://github.com/ransford/pdflatex-makefile> for better pdflatex
  support.

- Renamed sample files to sampleasme2e.* for clarity.

- Integrated journal samples and class files: pass class option
  `journal` to switch to journal mode.

- Fixed font and capitalization of captions.

- Fixed journal sample to use "graphicx" for pdflatex support.

- Start using package "geometry" for more reliable page sizes.

- Re-formatted tex source code for examples using fmtlatex:
  <http://www.math.ntnu.no/~stacey/HowDidIDoThat/LaTeX/fmtlatex>

- Converted README file to Markdown text format for formatting on GitHub
  repository homepage.

*Updated by*: Ryan Pavlik <rpavlik@iastate.edu>

### version 1.7.1, Mar 17, 2010.
- Remove embedded `cite.sty` and just use one.

- Part and section headings in uppercase.

- Remove commented-out "boatanchors" in favor of version control.

*Updated by*: Ryan Pavlik <rpavlik@iastate.edu>

### version 1.7, August 1, 2012.
- added `\special{papersize=8.5in,11in}` to asme2e.tex

*Updated by*: Hongtai Cheng <h_c45@txstate.edu>

### version 1.7, Jan 11, 2010.
Modified `asme2e.cls` with the following changes:

- Greek letters in math mode are italicized.

- Figure captions are in uppercase bold sans serif font of 9 points.

- The defined commands `\hour` `\minute` conflict with the commands
  `\hour` and `\minute` in the approved package `SIunits`. They were
  changed to `\thour` and `\tminute`.

*Updated by*: Marc LaViolette <laviolette-m@rmc.ca>

### version 1.6, May 24, 2009.
- Modified `asmems4.bst` to use `\textbf` for handling boldface.

*Updated by*: Tim Lahey <tjlahey@cgl.uwaterloo.ca>

### version 1.5, January 12, 2009.
- Modified `asme2e.tex` to use a new header

- Modified `asme2e.cls` to use a new header

*Updated by*: Harry H. Cheng <hhcheng@ucdavis.edu>

### version 1.4, May 12, 2005.
- Modified `asme2e.cls` to support pdflatex

- Modified `asme2e.cls` to support multiple lines in conference name.
  `asme2e.tex` modified with a conference with multiple lines.

*Updated by*: <matthew.campbell@goodrich.com>

### version 1.3, Januaray 9, 2005.
- Top margin of the layout changed in `asme2e.cls`. `asme2e.cls1.2` is for
  ASME DETC template version 1.2.

- Updated `asmms4.bst` to conform the ASME reference format. It fixes 2
  items in the article format: 1) a extraneous space after number or
  month was removed, and 2) an incorrect font style that occurred for
  one particular combination of number and month data was corrected. It
  also adjusts capitalization in proceedings entries to correspond to
  the latest ASME reference format. The current ASME reference format
  still does not completely resolve all formatting issues. In
  particular, the sample bibliography uses roman style for journal names
  in an article citation, but the reference format doesn't actually
  specify a style for the journal name. Since there's some ambiguity
  here, I left the journal name italicized.

*Updated by*: Geoffrey Shiflett <shiflett@usc.edu>

### version 1.2, August 28, 2003.
- updated asme2e.cls. The 1st page heading is
  location, date instead of the reverse.

### version 1.2, August 26, 2003.
- updated ASME bibliography style file asmems4.bst.
- removed brackets surrounding month in article citations

### version 1.2, January 25, 2003.
- support the modified ASME bibliography style

### version 1.1, February 16, 2001
- support new ASME bibliography style

### No version num, May 7, 1994
- the initial distribution of the template


## Files included in this distribution:

### Documentation

- `README.mkd`: this file

- `FAQ`: frequently asked questions.

- `README2`: information about Postscript Type 1 fonts if you run into
  trouble with `times.sty`, `mathptmx.sty`, and `pifont.sty`.

### Files used to create ASME-format papers

- `asme2e.cls`: LaTeX document class for papers of the American
  Society of Mechanical Engineers. Supports both conference papers
  (default) and journal papers (pass class option `journal`). Questions
  related to `asme2e.cls` may be addressed to Ken Sprott at
  <sprottk@gaia.ecs.csus.edu>

- `asme2e.layout`: LyX document layout file to add support for the
  `asme2e` class. Questions related to `asme2e.layout` may be addressed
  to Ryan A. Pavlik at <rpavlik@iastate.edu>

- `asmems4.bst`: ASME bibliography style file. Questions related to
  asmems4.bst may be addressed to Geoffrey Shiflett at
  <shiflett@usc.edu>

### Samples and supporting files

- `sampleasme2e.tex`: Sample "conference paper" which uses
  `asme2e.cls` and documents some specifications of an ASME conference
  paper.

- `sampleasme2e.pdf`: PDF file generated from `sampleasme2e.tex`

- `sampleasme2ej.tex`: Sample "journal paper" which uses the
  `asme2e.cls` and documents some specifications of an ASME journal
  paper, particularly emphasizing the issue of figures.

- `sampleasme2ej.pdf`: PDF file generated from `sampleasme2ej.tex`

- `lyx-sample.lyx`: Sample LyX document using `asme2e.layout` and
  `asme2e.cls`, with content based on `sampleasme2e.tex`.

- `sampleasme2e.bib`: BibTeX file containing mostly dummy entries,
  shared by `sampleasme2e.tex`, `sampleasme2ej.tex`, and `lyx-sample.lyx`.

- `figure/*`: Figures used by `sampleasme2ej.tex`

- `Makefile`: a Makefile for creating pdf files from the two `.tex`
  sample documents

- `pdflatex-makefile/*`: A third-party makefile include that simplifies
  building PDF files using `pdflatex` - see
  <https://github.com/ransford/pdflatex-makefile>


## Notes
- The package `array` is included in the class file `asme2e.cls`. See
  "The LaTeX Companion" book for a description of its use in compiling
  tables.

- The class file asme2e.cls will not produce unnumbered theorems in the
  theorem environment.

- To get unnumbered equations, use the package `amslatex` in your
  document.

## Contributors:
- Harry H. Cheng <hhcheng@ucdavis.edu>

  - the original creator of the template.

- Kirk Van Katwyk

  - contributed to `asme.sty` and `asme2e.cls`

- Ken Sprott <sprottk@gaia.ecs.csus.edu>

  - contributed `asme2e.cls` and ASME bibliography

- Geoffrey Shiflett <shiflett@usc.edu>

  - created ASME bibliography style file `asmems4.bst` with details
    explained in `sampleasme2e.tex`.

- Matt Campbell <matthew.campbell@goodrich.com>

  - modified `asme2e.cls` to support pdflatex and conference name with
    multiple lines.

- Ryan Pavlik <rpavlik@iastate.edu>

  - modified `asme2e.cls` to merge the conference and journal paper
  classes, improve font and case handling in headings and captions, and
  not embed an outdated `cite.sty`. Created `asme2e.layout` and
  `lyx-sample.lyx` for document composition in LyX.

